The proposed KYC system is carefully designed to provide a secure and reliable platform for verification of documents, leveraging the cooperative aspects of the blockchain technology and the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS). Traditional methods usually struggle with challenges like centralization, vulnerability to data tampering, and reliance on third parties. To combat these obstacles, the system offers a decentraliseinfrastructure that eliminates the need for central authority, in addition to safeguarding the integrity of documents.
The blockchain network acts as the backbone of the system. Not only does it serve as the foundational structure for secure and efficient transactions but also for the storage of document hashes. Key operations such as adding exporters, uploading documents and verifying authenticity is managed by smart contracts deployed on the blockchain. Solidity, compatible with the Ethereum network, is employed to program Ethereum smart contracts within this system. It facilitates the creation of smart contracts andseamlessly integrates with the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), enablingthe implementation of stringent access controls.
Additionally, one of the main components of the blockchain network is an InterPlanetary File Management System (IPFS), which provides decentralized and immutable storage solutions and organizes the storage of documents. The operation of the proposed system will begin with the crucial process of authorization of exporters. The Ethereum addresses are entered through the HTML interface. Upon its approval, the exporters are added to the list of approved entities. The authorisation is granted by a designated system administrator, which empowers the exporter to upload documents to the system, and avail the storage process on IPFS. When an exporter uploads a document via the HTML interface, the document is encoded and then stored on the IPFS as shown in Fig 3.1. Moreover, the hash corresponding to a document is immortalized on the blockchain, creating a permanent link between the document’s content and its unique identifier. The hash of the uploaded document is carefully recorded on the blockchain, to support the verification process later. Document verification, which is integrated in the system, enables easy and efficient confirmation of the availability of documents. Authorized Administrator can fetch the documents from IPFS through a simple process of uploading the document, which is to be verified, via the user-friendly HTML interface. This is followed by the decryption of the retrieved documents, allowing the system to compare their hashes with the ones recorded on the blockchain. Users receive a quick and clear message regarding the authenticity of the document, demonstrating a verification process that is both fast and reliable.
The proposed KYC system presents a significant change in the document verification process, providing a secure, decentralized, and user-focused method that goes beyond the constraints of traditional approaches. By leveraging the innovative capabilities of blockchain and IPFS technologies, the system not only tackles the drawbacks of standard methods but also provides a gateway for trust, and effectiveness.
